---
---

{: #kanchor3060}
# Slice (.slc) export
SLC is a 2½-dimension file describing slices (contours) through a solid model typically for rapid prototyping applications such as stereolithography. It consists of successive cross-section polylines taken at ascending Z intervals (normal).
To save SLC files
From theFilemenu, clickExport SelectedorSave As.In the dialog box, theFiles of typelist displays the currently supported file types for export.In theFiles of typebox, selectSlice (*.slc).In theFile namebox, select or type a file name. [Pick](pick-location.html) a point that will bestartof your slicing normal.The slices will be evenly spaced, (you can modify the distance between slices in an upcoming dialog box) and perpendicular to the slicing normal.Pick a point that will be theendof slicing normal.SLC Export Options
Distance between slices
The distance between the slices or layers of curves that your final output will contain. The distance should be based on the slice thickness of your final output device.
Angle between polyline segments
The angle that determines how smooth the polylines of the slice curves will be. When the number is small you will get a smooth final output but it will take more time to export.
Use meshes to generate slices
The curves for each slice are generated by intersecting the object mesh with a plane. Consequently, theAngle between polyline segmentsdata is no longer used. The final output is based on the number of polygons chosen for the mesh in thePolygon Mesh Optionsdialog. The greater the number of polygons, the longer it will take to export and the smoother the final result.
Always use these settings. Do not show this dialog again.
Saves the current settings and turns off the dialog display.
To turn the message back on
Click **Options** in the appropriate [Save](save.html), [Export](export.html), [Open](open.html), [Import](import.html), or [Insert](insert.html) dialog box.&#160;
&#160;
Rhinoceros 6 © 2010-2015 Robert McNeel &amp; Associates.11-Nov-2015
 [Open topic with navigation](slice-slc-export.html) 

