_jp/flamingo/5/website/welcome.md, before:

---
layout: fullwidth-page
---

# Getting Started with Flamingo nXt®
Flamingo nXt creates high quality, photorealistic, still, and animation image files from 3-D models inside Rhinoceros ®. Flamingo nXt 5 is an update to Flamingo which integrates with the built-in rendering features in Rhino 5. This is currently a work in progress version.

Flamingo can be downloaded and installed from the [Flamingo nXt 5 Download](http://www.rhino3d.com/download/flamingo/5/beta).

You can join the technical discussion on the [Flamingo Discourse Forum](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rendering/flamingo).

## Installation

Flamingo 5 Beta requires a previous version of Flamingo nXt to be installed.
Rhino 5 Service Release 12 is required to run Flamingo nXt 5.
After downloading and running the RHI installer, start up Rhino.

For technical support, tutorials, examples, and information about how to get started using Flamingo nXt, go to the [Flamingo nXt web site](http://nxt.flamingo3d.com/).


> [Tutorials](http://nxt.flamingo3d.com/page/tutorials-and-documentation)
> [Gallery](http://nxt.flamingo3d.com/photo)
> [Technical support](http://nxt.flamingo3d.com/forum)

## Getting started guides
The Flamingo nXt  Control Panel provides tabs for setting up the model for rendering, including:

> [Materials](..\materials\materials-tab.html)
> [Lighting](../lighting/lighting-tab.html)
> [Environment](../environment/environment-tab.html)
> [Render](../render/render-tab.html)

## Help documentation
 * On the Flamingo nXt menu, click Control Panel.

## Flamingo information and support
 For technical support, tutorials, examples, and information about how to get started using Flamingo nXt, go to the [Flamingo nXt web site](http://www.flamingo3d.com/).


> [Tutorials](http://nxt.flamingo3d.com/page/tutorials-and-documentation)
> [Gallery](http://nxt.flamingo3d.com/photo)
> [Technical Support](http://www.flamingo3d.com/en/support/)
> [Forum](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rendering/flamingo)

Commit message:

Japanese updated.
Updated Japanese so that it matches English, Translated header.htm and
help-index.yaml

_jp/flamingo/5/website/welcome.md, after:

---
layout: fullwidth-page
title: Getting Started with Flamingo
---

# ![images/flamingotab.svg](images/flamingotab.svg) Getting Started with Flamingo nXt®
Flamingo nXt creates high quality, photorealistic, still, and animation image files from 3-D models inside Rhinoceros ®. Flamingo nXt 5 is an update to Flamingo which integrates with the built-in rendering features in Rhino 5. This is currently a work in progress version.

Flamingo can be downloaded and installed from the [Flamingo nXt 5 Download](http://www.rhino3d.com/download/flamingo/5/beta).

You can join the technical discussion on the [Flamingo Discourse Forum](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rendering/flamingo).

## Installation

Flamingo 5 Beta requires a previous version of Flamingo nXt to be installed.
Rhino 5 Service Release 12 is required to run Flamingo nXt 5.
After downloading and running the RHI installer, start up Rhino.

## Help Documentation
Help documentation for Flamingo comes in a few languages:

* [中文(简体)]({{baseurl}}/cn/flamingo/5/help)
* [Deutsch]({{baseurl}}/de/flamingo/5/help)
* [English]({{baseurl}}/en/flamingo/5/help)
* [Español]({{baseurl}}/es/flamingo/5/help)
* [Français]({{baseurl}}/fr/flamingo/5/help)
* [Italiano]({{baseurl}}/it/flamingo/5/help)
* [日本語]({{baseurl}}/jp/flamingo/5/help)
* [한국어]({{baseurl}}/kr/flamingo/5/help)
* [中文(繁 體)]({{baseurl}}/tw/flamingo/5/help)

## Getting Started
On the Flamingo nXt menu, click Control Panel. The Flamingo nXt  Control Panel provides tabs for setting up the model for rendering, including:

> [Materials](../help/material-editor.html)
> [Lighting](../help/lighting-tab.html)
> [Environment](../help/environment-tab.html)
> [Render](../help/render-tab.html)

## Flamingo information and support
 For technical support, tutorials, examples, and information about how to get started using Flamingo nXt, go to the [Flamingo nXt web site](http://www.flamingo3d.com/).

 For technical support, tutorials, examples, and information about how to get started using Flamingo nXt, go to the [Flamingo nXt web site](http://nxt.flamingo3d.com/).

 > [Tutorials](http://nxt.flamingo3d.com/page/tutorials-and-documentation)
 > [Gallery](http://nxt.flamingo3d.com/photo)
 > [Technical support](http://nxt.flamingo3d.com/forum)
